#summary Getting Started

Backsight is coded in C# and NET 2.0. It consists of 2 main applications:

  # The Cadastral Editor is used to enter data from survey plans.
  # The Environment Editor is used to define things like the names of valid map layers.

Before you can use the Cadastral Editor, you need to use the Environment Editor to define the sort of information you want to store. The Environment Editor uses a SQLServer 2005 database to store this definition. If you don't already have access to SQLServer, you can download SQLServer Express from [http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/sql here] (the SQLServer Management Studio is also a handy utility that you can download from the same place). Once you have SQLServer 2005 installed, create a new database called Backsight.

When you start the Environment Editor for the very first time, it will look for a database called Backsight on your computer. If it cannot find one, you get the following message:
{{{

  // The Environment Editor doesn't have a record of the database
  // where information should be stored. Please pick an existing
  // database, or click Cancel to exit.

}}}
Browse to the database you want to use and click the Connect button. Once you're connected, the Environment Editor checks that Backsight system tables have been created. If not (it's a brand new database), a dialog appears that contains the following message:
{{{

  // The selected database does not appear to contain Backsight system tables.
  // Click the Create button to create them now, or Cancel if you wish to use some other database.

}}}
Click the Create button to create the database tables where the Environment Editor will store stuff. To load the database with a sample definition, you can use the File-Import command. When you do that, you get the message:
{{{

  // Importing will replace the content of current database.
  // Are you sure that's what you want to do?

}}}
Click OK and you will be asked to locate a Backsight environment file. A sample called "Manitoba Environment.xml" is provided in the trunk/Files folder. Once you have located the file, click OK, and it will be loaded into your database. The Environment Editor will then display a list of all valid "entity types". Use the View menu to look at the various things the environment contains.

Once you have got a defined environment, you can start the Cadastral Editor (it always works with the environment database you last opened). Each time you perform an edit, a description of that edit gets saved in the database. A small preferences file (with a file extension of _.cedx_) is also written to the file system. Associating the _.cedx_ file extension with the Cadastral Editor makes it easy to relaunch the Editor.

  
  






 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 